docs/coap_api.md, before:

# CoAP API

CoAP API consists of following resources.  

| Resource | Supported request type |
| :--- | :--- |
| [`version`](#version) | GET |
| [`status`](#status) | GET, observable |
| [`switch`](#swtich) | GET, POST |
| [`tc`](#tc) | GET, POST |
| [`tc_def`](#tc_def) | GET, POST |


Responses to all requests are in Comma-separated values (CSV) format.

Following describes how to test the API using `coap-client` command-line interface (CLI) client.

* Install `coap-client`. For *Ubuntu*-based systems use the following command to install.
  ```bash
  sudo apt install libcoap2-bin
  ```
* The CLI client can be used as follows.
  ```bash
  coap-client -m <method> "coap://<device IP>/<resource>?<query parameters>"

  ```
  * *&lt;method&gt;* &ndash; CoAP method. Valid values: `get` or `post`.
  * *&lt;device IP&gt;* &ndash; IP address of the device.
  * *&lt;resource&gt;* &ndash; Refer to the above table.
  * *&lt;query parameters&gt;* &ndash; This is a tuple of name-value pairs (separated by `&`) in the format *&lt;name1&gt;=&lt;value1&gt;&&lt;name2&gt;=&lt;value2&gt;...*.
    * *&lt;name1&gt;, &lt;name2&gt;, ...* &ndash; Refer to the parameters of the individual resource.
    * *&lt;value1&gt;, &lt;value2&gt;, ...* &ndash; Refer to the supported values of the related parameters.
    * If only one name-value pair is specified, use the format *&lt;name&gt;=&lt;value&gt;*.

## `version`
Get hardware IDs.

### GET parameters
None.

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | MCU UUID. |
| 1 | Ethernet MAC address. |
| 2 | Power-in board revision. |
| 3 | Power-out board revision. |
| 4 | Controller board revision. |


## `status`
Get switch status, trip curve status and measurements.

### GET parameters (only if the observe option is set)
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| p | Set the observation notification interval in milliseconds. Value range: 100 &ndash; 2<sup>32</sup>-1.  |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | Uptime in milliseconds. |
| 1 | Switch status. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Opened</li><li> 1 &ndash; Closed</li></ul> |
| 2 | Cause for the trip curve to change its status. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; None</li><li>1 &ndash; External user event</li><li>2 &ndash; Hardware-based overcurrent protection</li><li>3 &ndash; Software-based overcurrent protection</li><li>4 &ndash; Hardware-based overcurrent protection test</li><li>5 &ndash; Over temperature protection</li><li>6 &ndash; Under voltage protection</li></ul> |
| 3 | Trip curve state. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Undefined</li><li> 1 &ndash; Opened</li><li> 2 &ndash; Closed</li><li> 3 &ndash; Transient</li></ul> |
| 4 | Instantaneous current (mA). |
| 5 | RMS current (mA). |
| 6 | Instantaneous voltage (mV). |
| 7 | RMS voltage (mA). |
| 8 | Power-in board temperature (&#8451;). |
| 9 | Power-out board temperature (&#8451;). |
| 10 | Ambient temperature inside the enclosure (&#8451;). |
| 11 | MCU temperature (&#8451;). |


## `switch`
Get status and perform open/close operations.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `a` | Set trip curve state. Values: `open`, `close`, `toggle` |

### Response
Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource.


## `tc`
Get status of current trip curve, set its parameters and perform open/close operations.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `a` | Set trip curve state. Values: `open`, `close`, `toggle` |
| `hwl` | Set hardware current limit. Value range: 30 &ndash; 60 |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | Trip curve state. Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource. |
| 1 | Cause for the trip curve to change its status. Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource. |
| 2 | Hardware current limit (A). |

## `tc_def`
Get status of default trip curve and set its parameters.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `recen` | Enable/disable recovery. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Disable</li><li> 1 &ndash; Enable</li></ul> |
| `rec` | Set the number of recovery attempts. Values: 0 &ndash; 65535 |
| `csom` | Set the close-state operation mode. Values:  <ul><li>0 &ndash; Disabled</li><li> 1 &ndash; Sine wave modulation control</li></ul> |
| `csomcl` | Applicable only for sine wave modulation control mode. </br>Set the number of voltage zero-crossings that the switch stays closed. Values: 1 &ndash; 254  |
| `csomper` | Applicable only for sine wave modulation control mode. </br>Set the number of voltage zero-crossings to be considered as a period. Values: 2 &ndash; 255  |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 &ndash; 2 | Refer to the [response](#response-3) format of [tc](#tc) resource. |
| 3 | Indicates if the recovery is enabled. Refer to the POST parameter description of `recen` field. |
| 4 | Number of recovery attempts. Refer to the POST parameter description of `rec` field. |
| 5 | Close-state operation mode. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csom` field. |
| 6 | Number of voltage zero-crossings that the switch stays closed. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csomcl` field. |
| 7 | Number of voltage zero-crossings to be considered as a period. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csomper` field. |

## Developer note
This API is subjected to change to group the functionalities among CoAP resources in a more meaningful way.

Commit message:

Added capability to change recovery duration for DC via CoAP
Previously, recovery duration is configurable only via kconfig.
Now, the recovery duration is configurable via CoAP.

Note that the recovery duration is valid only for DC.
For AC, voltage zero crossing is used instead.

docs/coap_api.md, after:

# CoAP API

CoAP API consists of following resources.  

| Resource | Supported request type |
| :--- | :--- |
| [`version`](#version) | GET |
| [`status`](#status) | GET, observable |
| [`switch`](#swtich) | GET, POST |
| [`tc`](#tc) | GET, POST |
| [`tc_def`](#tc_def) | GET, POST |


Responses to all requests are in Comma-separated values (CSV) format.

Following describes how to test the API using `coap-client` command-line interface (CLI) client.

* Install `coap-client`. For *Ubuntu*-based systems use the following command to install.
  ```bash
  sudo apt install libcoap2-bin
  ```
* The CLI client can be used as follows.
  ```bash
  coap-client -m <method> "coap://<device IP>/<resource>?<query parameters>"

  ```
  * *&lt;method&gt;* &ndash; CoAP method. Valid values: `get` or `post`.
  * *&lt;device IP&gt;* &ndash; IP address of the device.
  * *&lt;resource&gt;* &ndash; Refer to the above table.
  * *&lt;query parameters&gt;* &ndash; This is a tuple of name-value pairs (separated by `&`) in the format *&lt;name1&gt;=&lt;value1&gt;&&lt;name2&gt;=&lt;value2&gt;...*.
    * *&lt;name1&gt;, &lt;name2&gt;, ...* &ndash; Refer to the parameters of the individual resource.
    * *&lt;value1&gt;, &lt;value2&gt;, ...* &ndash; Refer to the supported values of the related parameters.
    * If only one name-value pair is specified, use the format *&lt;name&gt;=&lt;value&gt;*.

## `version`
Get hardware IDs.

### GET parameters
None.

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | MCU UUID. |
| 1 | Ethernet MAC address. |
| 2 | Power-in board revision. |
| 3 | Power-out board revision. |
| 4 | Controller board revision. |


## `status`
Get switch status, trip curve status and measurements.

### GET parameters (only if the observe option is set)
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| p | Set the observation notification interval in milliseconds. Value range: 100 &ndash; 2<sup>32</sup>-1.  |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | Uptime in milliseconds. |
| 1 | Switch status. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Opened</li><li> 1 &ndash; Closed</li></ul> |
| 2 | Cause for the trip curve to change its status. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; None</li><li>1 &ndash; External user event</li><li>2 &ndash; Hardware-based overcurrent protection</li><li>3 &ndash; Software-based overcurrent protection</li><li>4 &ndash; Hardware-based overcurrent protection test</li><li>5 &ndash; Over temperature protection</li><li>6 &ndash; Under voltage protection</li></ul> |
| 3 | Trip curve state. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Undefined</li><li> 1 &ndash; Opened</li><li> 2 &ndash; Closed</li><li> 3 &ndash; Transient</li></ul> |
| 4 | Instantaneous current (mA). |
| 5 | RMS current (mA). |
| 6 | Instantaneous voltage (mV). |
| 7 | RMS voltage (mA). |
| 8 | Power-in board temperature (&#8451;). |
| 9 | Power-out board temperature (&#8451;). |
| 10 | Ambient temperature inside the enclosure (&#8451;). |
| 11 | MCU temperature (&#8451;). |


## `switch`
Get status and perform open/close operations.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `a` | Set trip curve state. Values: `open`, `close`, `toggle` |

### Response
Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource.


## `tc`
Get status of current trip curve, set its parameters and perform open/close operations.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `a` | Set trip curve state. Values: `open`, `close`, `toggle` |
| `hwl` | Set hardware current limit. Value range: 30 &ndash; 60 |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 | Trip curve state. Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource. |
| 1 | Cause for the trip curve to change its status. Refer to the [response](#response-1) format of the [status](#status) resource. |
| 2 | Hardware current limit (A). |

## `tc_def`
Get status of default trip curve and set its parameters.

### GET parameters
None.

### POST parameters
| Parameter | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `recen` | Enable/disable recovery. Values: <ul><li>0 &ndash; Disable</li><li> 1 &ndash; Enable</li></ul> |
| `rec` | Set the number of recovery attempts. Values: 0 &ndash; 65535 |
| `recdu` | Set the recovery duration (in microseconds). Values: 0 &ndash; 65535 |
| `csom` | Set the close-state operation mode. Values:  <ul><li>0 &ndash; Disabled</li><li> 1 &ndash; Sine wave modulation control</li></ul> |
| `csomcl` | Applicable only for sine wave modulation control mode. </br>Set the number of voltage zero-crossings that the switch stays closed. Values: 1 &ndash; 254  |
| `csomper` | Applicable only for sine wave modulation control mode. </br>Set the number of voltage zero-crossings to be considered as a period. Values: 2 &ndash; 255  |

### Response
| Index | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| 0 &ndash; 2 | Refer to the [response](#response-3) format of [tc](#tc) resource. |
| 3 | Indicates if the recovery is enabled. Refer to the POST parameter description of `recen` field. |
| 4 | Number of recovery attempts. Refer to the POST parameter description of `rec` field. |
| 5 | Recovery duration (in microseconds). Refer to the POST parameter description of `recdu` field. |
| 6 | Close-state operation mode. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csom` field. |
| 7 | Number of voltage zero-crossings that the switch stays closed. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csomcl` field. |
| 8 | Number of voltage zero-crossings to be considered as a period. Refer to the POST parameter description of `csomper` field. |

## Developer note
This API is subjected to change to group the functionalities among CoAP resources in a more meaningful way.
